---
layout: article
title:  "Where is the value?"
---

This is the key question and the definition of the two levels mentioned in the introduction. Delivering value to your users has usually the higher priority. From a business standpoint that makes (of course) sense. From a human standpoint it is bearable at best and can become really harmful in the long run.

In the long run, only keeping the human side the priority is a sustainable way. People cannot feel valued as humans if the product value is the higher priority. For our set of methods that means that we're looking for stuff that makes building stuff easier.

Between humans, there is only one type of problems: communication problems. Each and every time something went wrong on a not-technical level, it was because of miscommunication. Too little, too late. Didn't ask, didn't know there was something to ask about.

So on that level our methods should deliver communication value. Make things clearer and raise new questions which you hadn't thought about before.

The product level shouldn't need much explanation. You can build something sloppy and implement the next best version. And if that delivers value to your users you should deploy that. But then you should iterate and make it better. Those are the proverbial last 20 percent which take up 80% of the time.

The beauty of software is: you *can* deliver that first 80% now, and the other 20% later. The difficult part is actually doing that improvement. This is where the two levels meet: 

- Only good collaboration can unleash all the creativity in all participants
- Only if everbody was able to give all they could do you know you made the best thing possible four you
- Only good communication can ensure good collaboration
- Only good collaboration keeps working fun and all participants motivated to go the extra mile and iterate towards something great

But there is a third way of looking at value. You should ask your self everyday how you can deliver the most value to your team – both on the product and human level. And you should review that with them from time to time. More on that later.

Value is – wait for it – the only thing of value. If you're a nice person, that is value. If you write good code, that is value. If you bring initative, that is value. If you solve a problem for your users, that is value.

Get used to the term value. Think about it often and repeatedly. Maybe keep a little Value Journal where you note down when and what value you delivered. That journal will in the end provide a lot of value to *you*.